---
layout: post
title: Separate laundry from the protected route
abbrlink: 0108fe693af64c56b85c031b3a6c7737
tags:
  - fire_safety
categories:
  - Standard Clauses
  - 24 - Fire Safety
date: 1589190537000
updated: 1589190537000
---

**Separate laundry from the protected route**

No electrical appliances must be operated within the ‘protected escape route’. Either relocate the laundry equipment to within a room separated from the ‘protected route’ by half-hour fire-resisting construction, or construct a half-hour resisting construction, with half-hour fire-resisting, self-closing door to isolate the existing machines from the communal ‘protected escape route’. The new partition to be rigid, vertical, capable of supporting imposed loads, integrated securely into the adjacent building construction and constructed in accordance with current Building Regulations. Junctions with adjacent structural elements shall be constructed so that the structure maintains its fire integrity in the event of a fire, and is imperforate and sealed against the passage of the products of combustion. If the partition forms part of a ‘protected fire escape route’, the surface forming the escape route must have a Class 0 spread of fire. If the wall separates dwellings or a dwelling from the protected route, it may also have to comply with the Building and a Building Application should be submitted. Provide and fix fire resisting door and frame set to the new opening. Door and frame when fitted to have a minimum standard of fire resistance of 30 minutes. Fill gaps between frame and wall/partition opening with intumescent mastic or paste. The frame should be plumb and square, and securely fixed into the opening. Fit a intimately fitted softwood or hardwood architrave, at least 15mm thick with a 15mm overlap onto both wall and door frame. Where door leaf is binding with the frame , relieve door by removal of minimum amounts of timber equally from door and frame. Fill gaps greater than 4mm by fitting solid timber of equivalent density to door and frame respectively. The timber to be screwed and glued using non-thermally softening glue. Minimum permitted size of timber infill is 6mm. The bottom edge of the door should be parallel to the floor finish so as not to bind and to leave a maximum gap of 10mm beneath the door when closed. The door and frame when fitted to have minimum standard of fire resistance of 30 minutes. On completion the door to be close fitting with frame (maximum gap 4mm) and effectively self-closing to engage the latch. It is recommended that an overhead hydraulic closer is used. Hang on three steel or brass hinges with hinge blade size of 75-100mm by 27-33mm. The doors or frames are to be fitted down both jambs and along the head with intumescent strips and cold smoke seals. The latch should have a positive latching mechanism comprising steel or brass nib (not rollerball catch) which is preferably surface mounted, secured to the door with fixings to a minimum depth of 25mm. Any lock, including deadlock, must be fitted with a turnkey mechanism, not necessitating use of a key on the room side.
