---
layout: post
title: Roof Damp Slates
abbrlink: 065f1506e30d40908c30ee6a66a8c956
tags:
  - damp_mould
categories:
  - Standard Clauses
  - 1 - Damp and Mould Growth
date: 1699191226000
updated: 1699224837092
---

**Slate**

 Strip the slated roof covering complete including slate battens. Carefully examine exposed structural timbers and replace all rotted, weak or broken members to leave roof carcass structurally sound.

Renail all existing roof timbers to the ridge, purlins and wall plates.

Lay under felt to the current edition of BS 747 and 25mm x 50mm treated timber battens set to an appropriate gauge. Recover roof using new or sound salvaged slates to suitable lap, fixed with non-ferrous nails. Provide Code 4 lead soakers, flashings and general roof weathering all wedged and set 19mm into vertical brick abutments and using lead pointing sealant. Verge courses to be bedded on cement/sand mortar struck flush at gable. Upon completion, lay suitable type sound salvaged ridge/hip tiles or new ridge/hip tiles bedded on sharp sand/cement (3:1) mortar with bed and perpendicular joints struck flush.

Dependent on the permeability of the slate under-felt used, ensure the roof void is properly ventilated in accordance with current Building Regulations and associated Codes of Practice.

Upon completion, leave whole sound and weather tight upon completion.

Strip off all slates/tiles from the existing **xxx** centre valley gutter and strip out the centre valley gutter complete. Carefully examine roof timbers and replace all rotten or defective members using sound well-seasoned timber of suitable dimensions.

Renail all existing roof timbers.

Provide and lay new gutter linings in the most appropriate Code of lead sheet laid on a continuous layer of roofing felt and dressed up roof slopes over tilting fillets to form gutter of 150mm depth, joined in length by welted joints laid flat in the direction of fall and to include fixing with nailed tingles. Where drips exist in gutter length, drip joints shall be reformed and lead dressed to gutter outlets.

Re-slate/tile using new or sound second-hand slates/tiles securely fixed with non-ferrous nails to suitable battens, fixed to a proper gauge on approved felt lining. Renew any defective soakers, flashings and fillets in Code 4 lead. Re-bed loose hip tiles, where appropriate. Leave roof sound and watertight up on completion.
