---
layout: post
title: 3. What The Renters' Rights Bill Means For Landlords
abbrlink: 0f40a957d68445599a2d811ee28f4261
tags:
  - renters_rights_bill
categories:
  - Renters Rights Bill
date: 1738076991197
updated: 1738077288505
---

The Bill will bring in a number of changes that both agents and landlords will need to be prepared for:

- **No more fixed-term tenancies**: Instead of
  running for a set period of time (e.g. 12, 18 or 24
  months) all new tenancies will be ‘periodic’ from
  the outset. This means that the tenancy is, in effect,
  open-ended and tenants will be able to end their
  tenancy with two months’ notice at any time.

- **Restrictions on rent increases**: Landlords will
  be able to increase rents once per year provided
  that the increase reflects the market rate. Tenants
  will have the right to contest any proposed increase
  they believe to be unfair.

- **No bidding wars**: Landlords will not be able to accept
  offers from tenants that exceed the advertised asking
  price, meaning that accurate pricing will be essential.

- **Enhanced eviction grounds**: With the removal
  of section 21 notices, landlords will need to have a
  reason to evict tenants under Section 8. New reasons
  will include rent arrears and the landlords’ need to sell
  or move into the property.

- **Property portal**: All landlords will be required
  to register on a new digital property portal.

- **Pets in properties**: Tenants will have the right to
  request permission to keep pets in rental properties
  and landlords will not be able to have a blanket ban on
  pets, unless the head lease prohibits them. To protect
  themselves, landlords will be able to impose conditions,
  such as requiring insurance for pet-related damage.
