---
layout: post
title: Door electrical locking device
abbrlink: 1037183a2fe34e0cba177bdd528a0407
tags:
  - fire_safety
categories:
  - Standard Clauses
  - 24 - Fire Safety
date: 1589190631000
updated: 1589190631000
---

**Door electrical locking device**

Electrically operated entry control devices have been developed for use as locking devices on fire exits. Electromechanical devices comprising electromechanical lock keeps and draw bolts, which can be controlled by people inside the premises by entering a code or by using ‘smart cards’, should not be fitted because they can fail. Electromechanical locking devices are only suitable if they are fitted with a manual means of overriding the locking mechanism, such as a push bar, push pad or lever handle and are not affected by pressure. Electromagnetic devices comprising a magnet and simple retaining plate are preferred because they contain no moving parts and have an inherent ‘fail-safe unlocked’ operation. The device must be capable of being controlled by the interruption of electrical current to an electromagnet, either manually via a switch, break glass point, or by linking with the fire detection and alarm control system. The device should be connected to the fire detection and alarm system, should incorporate a bypass circuit for immediate release on activation of the fire warning system. Each door should be fitted with a single securing device, and must be clearly labelled as to how to operate the opening mechanism. The exit doors should not be fitted with time-delay devices that prevent the opening of the exit doors for a pre-set time.
