---
layout: post
title: Replace door with door containing vision panel
abbrlink: 13d7a4a4e79c4d0b8554d25b799a5c56
tags:
  - fire_safety
categories:
  - Standard Clauses
  - 24 - Fire Safety
date: 1589188712000
updated: 1589188712000
---

**Replace door with door containing vision panel**

Remove the existing door and frame to # specify exact position of door # and suitably dispose of them. Provide and fix replacement fire resistant door and frame set incorporating a fire resisting glazed vision panel at eye level. Door, glazing and frame when fitted to have minimum standard of fire resistance of 30 minutes. An aperture must only be cut in a fire door by the manufacturer. The frame should be plumb and square, and securely fixed into the opening. Fill gaps between frame and wall/partition opening with intumescent mastic or paste. Fit a intimately fitted softwood or hardwood architrave, at least 15mm thick with a 15mm overlap onto both wall and door frame. Where door leaf is binding with the frame , relieve door by removal of minimum amounts of timber equally from door and frame. Fill gaps greater than 4mm by fitting solid timber of equivalent density to door and frame respectively. The timber to be screwed and glued using non-thermally softening glue. Minimum permitted size of timber infill is 6mm. The bottom edge of the door should be parallel to the floor finish so as not to bind and to leave a maximum gap of 10mm beneath the door when closed.

The door and frame when fitted to have minimum standard of fire resistance of 30 minutes. On completion the door to be close fitting with frame (maximum gap 4mm) and effectively self-closing to engage the latch. It is recommended that an overhead hydraulic closer is used. Hang on three steel or brass hinges with hinge blade size of 75-100mm by 27-33mm. The doors or frames are to be fitted down both jambs and along the head with intumescent strips and cold smoke seals. The latch should have a positive latching mechanism comprising steel or brass nib (not rollerball catch) which is preferably surface mounted, secured to the door with fixings to a minimum depth of 25mm. Any lock, including deadlock, must be fitted with a turnkey mechanism, not necessitating use of a key on the room side.
