---
layout: post
title: Provide Full Gas Central Heating (single family dwelling)
abbrlink: 21115e3da9f448a0b64c5129a8071d7e
tags: []
categories:
  - Camden
  - Excess Cold - CIEH Clauses
date: 1721725416632
updated: 1721726939450
---

Provide Full Gas Central Heating (single family dwelling)
Supply and install a whole house gas fired central heating system to the premises to satisfy the design and installation requirements of British Standard 5449:1990 and in accordance with Part L of the
current Building Regulations.

The system shall be capable of maintaining the following internal
temperatures when the external temperature is –1˚C:

- Living room and dining room 21˚C:
- Bathroom 22 ˚C:
- Elsewhere 18 ˚C:

Sizing of the boiler and radiators shall be determined using an approved Domestic Central Heating Calculator and approved radiator manufacturer’s sizing tables.

Radiators shall be so sited as to ensure even distribution of heat whilst minimising heat loss through walls and windows.

The following controls shall be provided:

A room thermostat suitably positioned
and wired so as to provide boiler
interlock
A programmer
Thermostatic Radiator Valves on all radiators except on the one in the
room containing the room thermostat (usually the hall).
Installation and testing (including for soundness and sizing of the gas carcassing under normal operating conditions) should be carried out in strict accordance with the manufacturer’s instructions, the Gas Safety
(Installation and Use) Regulations 1994 (as amended) and the relevant British Standards/Codes of Practice applicable to domestic gas installations. A copy of the Manufacturer’s instructions
should be left with the occupier and the Benchmark document competed by
the installer, a copy of which should be provided to the Council.

Note : Prior to installation of a combination boiler, the water pressure
available in the dwelling at peak time should be tested to confirm that it is capable of providing the maximum hot water flow rate specified in the chosen boiler manufacturer’s schedule.

Where it is established that there is insufficient water pressure for a
combination boiler, a conventional boiler shall be used, coupled with an indirect high performance hot water cylinder. As a guide a combination boiler shall be capable of providing domestic hot water at a draw off rate of at least 9.5 litres per minute at a temperature rise of 35˚C.
Work shall not commence on the installation until the design has been agreed with the Supervising Officer (WCC)
