---
layout: post
title: Walls Insulation Solid Brickwork
abbrlink: 2d6a0faf50e046c88d465766bfce2ce9
tags:
  - excess_cold
categories:
  - Standard Clauses
  - 2 - Excess Cold
date: 1699191047000
updated: 1699191047000
---

Prepare the internal faces of the **XXX** external facing walls and window reveals to receive wall insulation:

Remove all skirting, picture rails, coving, radiators, pipework, electrical fittings, wiring and other features to enable the fixing of insulation to the entire internal surface of the external wall.

Where removed materials and fittings are sound and safe, keep aside for reuse.

Where removed materials and fittings are unsuitable replace with new or sound reclaimed materials.

Cap off or make safe plumbing or electrical supplies.

Provide insulation to the internal faces of the **XXX** external walls, the insulation provided shall be attached to the wall in accordance with the manufacturers guidance and be designed to achieve a “U” Value of 0.30 (W/m2K). This may typically be achieved by the bonding of a 60mm thermal laminate wallboard, comprising a CFC free phenolic foam insulant and plasterboard bonded to the wall directly.

Restore removed items to the finished insulated surface and redecorate as necessary. Ensure any features such as timber window cills project outwards from the finished insulated surface by planting additional timber to match the extent of the original projection.

**Dependent on the manufacturer’s instructions for the insulation system installed, provide a suitable final surface for redecoration. Where practicable achieve this by providing a skim coat of finishing plaster to the insulated surface.**

\_Narrative- These clauses should be used w\_\_here the room walls are solid brickwork – NOT tile cladding on a mansard roof.\_*Use These clauses below where the wall has any windows, radiators, piping, wiring, sockets, switches, skirting, picture rail, coving or other similar features. Always specify the rooms in which you require the works.* *Officers should note on inspection all preparatory works that may be needed to each room to properly apply insulation, this will better enable officers to defend appeals and offer advice to owners.*
