---
layout: post
title: Replace existing 30 minute door and frame
abbrlink: 3ee643c97fef4ac5a58695af3d620aca
tags:
  - fire_safety
categories:
  - Standard Clauses For Housing Act Use - HHSRS
  - 24 - Fire Safety
date: 1621268867000
updated: 1621268867000
---

**Replace existing 30 minute door and frame**

Remove the existing door and frame # specify exact position # and suitably dispose of them. Take care to endure that the door does not contain any asbestos materials. If the door does contain suspect asbestolux it will have to be removed and disposed of to a licensed disposal site by a licensed asbestos contractor. Provide and fix replacement fire resisting door and frame set. Square the door opening as necessary and fill all voids with intumescent mastic or paste. Fill gaps between frame and wall/partition opening with intumescent mastic or paste. The frame should be plumb and square, and securely fixed into the opening. Fit a intimately fitted softwood or hardwood architrave, at least 15mm thick with a 15mm overlap onto both wall and door frame. All doors and frames when fitted to have minimum standard of fire resistance of 30 minutes. On completion the door to be close fitting with frame (maximum gap 4mm) and effectively self-closing to engage the latch. The bottom edge of the door should be parallel to the floor finish so as not to bind and to leave a maximum gap of 10mm beneath the door when closed. It is recommended that an overhead hydraulic closer is used. Hang on three steel or brass hinges with hinge blade size of 75-100mm by 27-33mm. The doors or frames are to be fitted down both hinge and lock sides and along the head with intumescent strips and cold smoke seals. The latch should have a positive latching mechanism comprising steel or brass nib (not rollerball catch) which is preferably surface mounted, secured to the door with fixings to a minimum depth of 25mm. Any lock, including deadlock, must be fitted with a turnkey mechanism, not necessitating use of a key on the room side.

The door and frame to be fitted in accordance with guidance issued by the Timber Research and Development Association.
