---
layout: post
title: Replace doors & frames (60 minutes)
abbrlink: 4112f5f21a3449c98a983f7edc657938
tags:
  - fire_safety
categories:
  - Standard Clauses For Housing Act Use - HHSRS
  - 24 - Fire Safety
date: 1589188664000
updated: 1589188664000
---

**Replace doors & frames (60 minutes)**

Remove all doors and frames from the positions listed immediately below and suitably dispose of:

specify exact door positions #

Take care to endure that the doors do not contain any asbestos materials. If any door does contain suspect asbestolux it will have to be removed and disposed of to a licensed disposal site by a licensed asbestos contractor. Provide and fix replacement fire resisting door and frame set. Square the door opening as necessary and fill all voids with intumescent mastic or paste. Fill gaps between frame and wall/partition opening with intumescent mastic or paste. Fit a intimately fitted softwood or hardwood architrave, at least 15mm thick with a 15mm overlap onto both wall and door frame. All doors and frames when fitted to have minimum standard of fire resistance of 60 minutes. On completion the door to be close fitting with frame (maximum gap 4mm) and effectively self-closing to engage the latch. The bottom edge of the door should be parallel to the floor finish so as not to bind and to leave a maximum gap of 10mm beneath the door when closed. It is recommended that an overhead hydraulic closer is used. Hang on three steel or brass hinges with hinge blade size of 75-100mm by 27-33mm. The door frames are to be fitted down both hinge and lock jambs and along the head with 60 minute protection intumescent strips and cold smoke seals, such as IF60 or N60 seals with a 21mm extrusion width and 7.5mm depth rebated into the frame and interrupted at the hinges and lock/latch plate positions where intumescent plugs are used. The doors are to be fitted with a suitable self-closing device. The latch should have a positive latching mechanism comprising steel or brass nib (not rollerball catch) which is preferably surface mounted, secured to the door with fixings to a minimum depth of 25mm. Any lock, including deadlock, must be fitted with a turnkey mechanism, not necessitating use of a key on the room side
