---
layout: post
title: FIRE RESISTING SCREEN & DOOR across the STAIRCASE
abbrlink: 41908da3dd7c4811acf8f53fb56adcff
tags:
  - fire_safety
categories:
  - Standard Clauses For Housing Act Use - HHSRS
  - 24 - Fire Safety
date: 1589189828000
updated: 1589189828000
---

**FIRE RESISTING SCREEN & DOOR across the STAIRCASE**

Construct a fire resisting screen across the ……. floor landing to separate the ……. floor from the accommodation below. The screen is to have a minimum standard of fire-resistance of 30 minutes. Provide and fix within the screen a fire-resisting door and frame set. The door and frame when fitted to also have minimum standard of fire-resistance of 30 minutes. On completion the door to be close fitting with frame (maximum gap 4mm) and effectively self-closing to engage the latch. Doors and frames when fitted to have a minimum standard of fire resistance of 30 minutes. The doors or frames are to be fitted down both hinge and lock sides and along the head with intumescent strips and flexible cold smoke seals and are to be fitted with suitable and effective self-closing devices. The bottom edge of the door should be parallel to the floor finish so as not to bind and to leave a maximum gap of 10mm beneath the door when closed. The doors and frames are to be fitted fully in accordance with the guidance issued by the Timber Research and Development Association and Appendix I to this schedule. The outer lobby door is NOT to be fitted with any lock or catch other than a ball catch.

If any glazing is incorporated into the door or partition, it must provide a level of at least 30 minutes fire resistance and should be marked, as a minimum, with an identifiable name, trademark etc. Installation must follow glazing guidelines provided by the manufacturer, with the glass identification work clearly visible. Any glazing situated in a screen shall be safety glazing if situated within 80 cm of the floor, or within 1.5m of the floor if situated in a fire door or adjacent vision panel. Non-insulating glazed areas in fire-resisting structures should be at least 500mm above floor level, unless the glazed elements are capable of providing 30 minutes fire-resistance in terms of both integrity and insulation.
