---
layout: post
title: Windows Overhaul Full
abbrlink: 42f3f879c74d4119afd32e0340913470
tags:
  - excess_cold
categories:
  - Standard Clauses
  - 2 - Excess Cold
date: 1699191094000
updated: 1699191094000
---

**Overhaul windows**

Overhaul the double hung sash window/s to the **XXX**, cut out and renew all rotten or badly worn timbers to the sashes, frame and cill. The finished sashes and other parts of the windows should fit within sound frames to a clearance of no more than 3mm, and be fitted with rebated seals fitted to the underside of the bottom rail and between the mid rails. Replace the staff and parting beads with proprietary new beads that are designed to reduce draughts. Ease and adjust as necessary and leave in sound working order on completion.

Overhaul the **XXX** box framed sliding sash windows and properly repair or replace all loose, broken, missing or rotted woodwork of sashes and frames, including external timber cills, as necessary; repair or replace all loose, broken or missing fittings such as sash cords, pulleys, weights and fasteners. The finished sashes and other parts of the windows should fit within sound frames to a clearance of no more than 3mm, and be fitted with rebated seals fitted to the underside of the bottom rail and between the mid rails. Replace the staff and parting beads with proprietary new beads that are designed to reduce draughts. Leave windows to open and close freely and in weatherproof condition.

Overhaul all sash windows in the property and properly repair all loose, broken, missing or rotted woodwork of sashes and frames, including external timber cills, as necessary; repair or replace all loose, broken or missing fittings such as sash cords, pulleys, weights and fasteners and leave windows to open and close freely and in weatherproof condition. All defective, loose and missing putties to windows are to be hacked out and made good with linseed oil putty to timber windows. Putties to be cleaned off on the inside and any disturbance to internal decorations made good. All cracked and holed glazing shall be replaced. Where the wooden sub-cills are rotten cut out and replace. Cut out all rotten timber and replace with new timer to match existing. Seal between the wooden sub-cill and stone cill.

Ease and adjust the window sashes and fittings to the **XXX**.

The finished sashes and other parts of the windows should fit within sound frames to a clearance of no more than 3mm, and be fitted with rebated seals fitted to the underside of the bottom rail and between the mid rails. Replace the staff and parting beads with proprietary new beads that are designed to reduce draughts.

Leave in proper working order on completion.

Renew the broken sash cord/s to the **XXX** windows. Leave in proper working order. The finished sashes and other parts of the windows should fit within sound frames to a clearance of no more than 3mm, and be fitted with rebated seals fitted to the underside of the bottom rail and between the mid rails. Replace the staff and parting beads with proprietary new beads that are designed to reduce draughts

Renew pulley stile to **XXX** window with sound new timber to match existing.

The finished sashes and other parts of the windows should fit within sound frames to a clearance of no more than 3mm, and be fitted with rebated seals fitted to the underside of the bottom rail and between the mid rails. Replace the staff and parting beads with proprietary new beads that are designed to reduce draughts.

Renew parting bead to **XXX** window with sound new timber to match existing.

The finished sashes and other parts of the windows should fit within sound frames to a clearance of no more than 3mm, and be fitted with rebated seals fitted to the underside of the bottom rail and between the mid rails. The new proprietary beads are to be designed to reduce draughts.

Renew the inside stop bead to **XXX** window with sound new timber to match existing.

The finished sashes and other parts of the windows should fit within sound frames to a clearance of no more than 3mm, and be fitted with rebated seals fitted to the underside of the bottom rail and between the mid rails. The new proprietary beads are to be designed to reduce draughts.

Renew sections of damaged architraving to **XXX** with sound new timber to match existing.

Re-cord sash windows to **XXX** leaving same able to open and close freely.

The finished sashes and other parts of the windows should fit within sound frames to a clearance of no more than 3mm, and be fitted with rebated seals fitted to the underside of the bottom rail and between the mid rails. The new proprietary new beads are to be designed to reduce draughts.

Supply and fix new sash lift\[s] to **XXX.**

Rebalance the **XXX** sash window by replacing the sash weight to the appropriate size. The finished sashes and other parts of the windows should fit within sound frames to a clearance of no more than 3mm, and be fitted with rebated seals fitted to the underside of the bottom rail and between the mid rails. The new proprietary new beads are to be designed to reduce draughts.

Take out box framed sliding sash window to the **XXX**; clean out opening and reset the window making good to all disturbed plastering and pointing on completion.

Overhaul the sashes, cut out and renew all rotten or badly worn timbers to the sashes, frame and cill. The finished sashes and other parts of the windows should fit within sound frames to a clearance of no more than 3mm, and be fitted with rebated seals fitted to the underside of the bottom rail and between the mid rails. Replace the staff and parting beads with proprietary new beads that are designed to reduce draughts. Ease and adjust as necessary and leave in sound working order on completion
