---
layout: post
title: S59 style Building Act clause regarding rainwater drainage – listed building
abbrlink: 431c44aca4a244dd9ce856eb12b97133
tags:
  - damp_mould
categories:
  - Standard Clauses
  - 1 - Damp and Mould Growth
date: 1698835625000
updated: 1698835625000
---

This is put here as it may be of use to someone one day. This was a scene where we've asked for Cast Iron rainwater drainage to be repaired on a listed building so this is jigged around to add things about Planning conservation requirements.

- **The cast iron rain water drainage stack and hopper heads to the front and rear of the property are choked with vegetation which has resulted in rainwater discharging over the front and rear elevation of the building, such that a nuisance from damp and mould growth has been created to habitable rooms of the property.**

1. Arrange for full scaffold access to the front and rear of the property.

2. Remove vegetation from the rainwater drainage to the front and rear elevation.

3. Disassemble the cast iron rainwater downpipe and hopper heads complete from the front and rear elevation including all connections to the back additions and bays.

Rod out and repair any defective sections of cast iron drainage and outlets to test and ensure that rainwater discharges properly into the drainage system without nuisance. Temporarily cap off any connections to rainwater downpipe to prevent nuisance frow water egress.

4. Inspect parapet guttering, hopper heads and outlets to the rainwater drainage and repair damage from vegetation or frost, piecing in new flashings or upstands in code 4 lead where necessary to leave sound and watertight.

5. Make good damage to pointing or spalled brick facings around the rainwater downpipe with new sound cement pointing, to strictly match existing pointing in accordance to Planning Conservation requirements and fasten the re-assembled cast iron rainwater downpipe securely to the front and rear elevations and test for water tightness.

6. Thoroughly test the new drainage connections for water-tightness and correct operation to ensure all services drain correctly without nuisance.

7. The works may require full Planning Conservation and Building Control consent and consultation to meet all current relevant legislative and regulatory requirements. As this property is Grade 2 listed, the Cast Iron rainwater drainage system and hoppers must be retained and repaired where reasonable and practicable. Similarly, all decoration, pointing and making good to disturbed surfaces must be in keeping with the original character and design of the building and if and where deviation from this is required it must be agreed. Where original building elements are to be replaced due to severe damage, this must be in consultation and agreement with The London Borough of Camden Planning Conservation Team. Note: Internally, once the walls have dried out, the plasterwork must be repaired by a specialist using three-coat lime plaster in accordance to Planning Conservation requirements.

Such alternative works may be carried out, in agreement with the Environmental Health Officer or Technical Officer, so as to ensure satisfactory compliance with the requirements of the schedule.\
It is in your interest to confirm, with the Council, the manner in which you propose to satisfy notice requirements BEFORE you begin to carry out works.

All of the above requirements are to be met in a proper workmanlike manner using materials which conform to appropriate British Standard wherever possible, and complying with all relevant standards and codes of practice.

Remove all tradesmen's refuse from the site and leave in a clean and tidy condition.

Make good all work disturbed in carrying out these requirements and suitably redecorate new work to match existing where necessary.

Any requirement of the Thames Water Utilities Plc must be complied with.

All works to electrical and gas installations must be carried out in accordance with the requirements of the appropriate energy provider, the current edition of the Institute of Electrical Engineers Regulations and by the current Gas Safety \[Installations & Use] Regulations.

Works to the building may require planning permission. Please contact the Council’s Duty Planner on 0207 974 5613 for advice as to whether an application is required.

Contact Building Control: On 020 7974 6941
