---
layout: post
title: Window General
abbrlink: 459b538a91364013abfd4e7d501453d2
tags:
  - excess_cold
categories:
  - Standard Clauses
  - 2 - Excess Cold
date: 1699189572000
updated: 1699189572000
---

**Window General**

Cut out the defective wood cill to the **XXX** window. Provide new timber cill, properly sealed and weathered, and make good all works disturbed.

Cut out **XXX** rotten wood window sill complete. Supply and scarf into pulley stiles a new hardwood sill, pattern as original. Make good all disturbed surfaces.

Secure the loose and insecure **XXX** window frame and make good all perished and missing pointing around the frame with suitable material.

Make good the gap between the window frame and internal reveal with a suitable grade mastic sealing compound.

Rake out broken and perished putties, paint rebates, re-putty and cover fresh putty with one coat of paint for protection.

Hack out broken glazing to the **XXX** window, clean out old putties and prepare rebate for glazing. Suitably re-glaze the window and run new putties.

Replace missing glazing to the **XXX** with suitable type glass. Paint rebates, re-putty and cover fresh putty with one coat of paint.

Provide adequate ventilation to the **XXX** room by making an area of the existing window, equal in extent to 1/20th of the floor area of the room, openable to the external air.

Repair the open joint between the **XXX** external stone and wood window sill with flexible mastic or other suitable sealant.
