---
layout: post
title: Walls Insulation Fixed
abbrlink: 93ecfffa88204daca2e72de615603bc2
tags: []
categories:
  - Standard Clauses
  - 2 - Excess Cold
date: 1699191054000
updated: 1699191054000
---

Provide insulation to the internal faces of the external wall(s) to the **XXX** room. The insulation provided shall be attached to the walls in accordance with the manufacturer’s guidance and be designed to achieve a “U” Value of 0.30 (W/m2K). This may typically be achieved by the bonding of a 60mm thermal laminate wallboard, comprising a CFC free phenolic foam insulant and plasterboard bonded to the wall directly.

**Dependent on the manufacturer’s instructions for the insulation system installed, provide a suitable final surface for redecoration. Where practicable achieve this by providing a skim coat of finishing plaster to the insulated surface.**

*Narrative - The design of insulation to external walls is very critical to a successful and effective installation and therefore clauses requiring work should demonstrate the scale of works that might be required. Officers are expected to spend some time on this aspect of the specification. Specifications that do not show appreciation of the scale of works required for each individual room will not normally be accepted. You should take good photographs of the situation so you may provide better direction.*

*Informative Note to officers: Use this clause below where the wall has no windows, radiators, piping, wiring, sockets, switches, skirting, picture rail, coving or other similar features. Always specify the rooms in which you require the works.*
