---
layout: post
title: Provide Full Electric Heating – single family dwelling (Storage heaters,
  off peak dual immersion)
abbrlink: 9a9c73d035b64f759c57417bb7d375e3
tags: []
categories:
  - Camden
  - Excess Cold - CIEH Clauses
date: 1721726979917
updated: 1721727149241
---

Design and install a full electric heating system for the dwelling using off peak storage heaters. The system shall be capable of maintaining the following internal temperatures when the external temperature is –1˚C:

- Living room 21
- Bathroom 22
- Elsewhere 18

The system shall include the following: The living room shall be provided with a fan assisted combination storage heater with thermostatically controlled top up convector heater. The main bedroom, kitchen, hallway, and any other bedroom with a design heatloss of 600w or over shall be provided with storage heaters. Small bedrooms where storage heating is deemed inappropriate shall be provided with wall mounted electric panel heaters with timers and electronic thermostats. In addition a wall mounted electric panel heaters with timers and electronic thermostats are to be provided in the main living room (and kitchen/diner) in addition to storage heaters.

Bathrooms where practicable shall be provided with storage heaters or otherwise with on peak down flow heaters.

All storage heaters shall have automatic charge control and a thermostatically controlled damper outlet.

For sizing and positioning of storage heaters regard shall be had to the method set out in DOM 8: Guide to the Design of Electric Space Heating Systems, The Electrical Heating and Ventilation Association, 2006. In particular the system shall be designed so that 90% of the annual heat requirement is available at the off peak rate.

All works to comply with the latest edition of the IEE Regulations and Part P of the current Building Regulations.
