---
layout: post
title: Provide lobbies outside individual rooms 1
abbrlink: 9b95e99786b44917bcf17617b800fe05
tags:
  - fire_safety
categories:
  - Standard Clauses For Housing Act Use - HHSRS
  - 24 - Fire Safety
date: 1589188808000
updated: 1589188808000
---

**Provide lobbies outside individual rooms**

Remove existing doors and frames from the following positions ……….. , Provide the rooms listed immediately above with a shared fire protecting lobby of minimum fire resistance of 30 minutes. The lobby is to be constructed outside the curtilage of the rooms and is to extend to the full height of the ceiling or be provided with a ceiling of minimum 30 minutes fire resistance at an appropriate height. Works to include the provision of new wall/partition opening(s) and the sealing/infilling of existing, redundant room door opening(s) where necessary. Where redundant room door openings are infilled, the finished construction is to have a minimum fire resistance of 30 minutes. Standards of construction to be in accordance with Appendix I to this schedule.

Provide and fix fire resisting door and frame sets to all inner and outer openings of the newly constructed lobby. Fill gaps between frame and wall/partition opening with intumescent mastic or paste. The frame should be plumb and square, and securely fixed into the opening. Fit a intimately fitted softwood or hardwood architrave, at least 15mm thick with a 15mm overlap onto both wall and door frame. All doors and frames when fitted to have minimum standard of fire resistance of 30 minutes. On completion the door to be close fitting with frame (maximum gap 4mm) and effectively self-closing to engage the latch. Doors and frames when fitted to have a minimum standard of fire resistance of 30 minutes and are to comply with BS476 Parts 22, 23 and 31.1. The doors or frames are to be fitted down both hinge and lock sides and along the head with intumescent strips and flexible cold smoke seals and are to be fitted with suitable and effective self-closing devices. The bottom edge of the door should be parallel to the floor finish so as not to bind and to leave a maximum gap of 10mm beneath the door when closed. The doors and frames are to be fitted fully in accordance with the guidance issued by the Timber Research and Development Association and Appendix I to this schedule. The outer lobby door is NOT to be fitted with any lock or catch other than a ball catch.

Provide adequate means of artificial lighting within the lobby.
