---
layout: post
title: Provide lobbies outside individual rooms
abbrlink: a4d71e5328cc4b7b80f902620fb4aade
tags:
  - fire_safety
categories:
  - Standard Clauses For Housing Act Use - HHSRS
  - 24 - Fire Safety
date: 1615395295000
updated: 1615395295000
---

**Provide lobbies outside individual rooms**

Provide the following rooms …., with fire protecting lobbies of minimum standard of fire resistance of 30 minutes. The lobbies are to be constructed outside the curtilage of the rooms and are to extend to the full height of the ceilings or be provided with ceilings of minimum 30 minutes fire resistance at an appropriate height. The minimum dimensions of each lobby are to be 1 metre x 1 metre (lobby size to be kept to the minimum necessary).

9. Lobby construction is to be in accordance with the standards detailed in Appendix I to this schedule. Provide and fix fire resisting door and frame sets to inner and outer openings of the newly constructed lobbies. Doors and frames when fitted to have a minimum standard of fire resistance of 30 minutes. Fill gaps between frame and wall/partition opening with intumescent mastic or paste. The frame should be plumb and square, and securely fixed into the opening. Fit a intimately fitted softwood or hardwood architrave, at least 15mm thick with a 15mm overlap onto both wall and door frame. All doors and frames when fitted to have minimum standard of fire resistance of 30 minutes. On completion the door to be close fitting with frame (maximum gap 4mm) and effectively self-closing to engage the latch. Each door or frame is to be fitted down both hinge and lock sides and along the head with intumescent strips and flexible cold smoke seals and are to be fitted with suitable and effective self-closing devices. The bottom edge of the door should be parallel to the floor finish so as not to bind and to leave a maximum gap of 10mm beneath the door when closed. The doors and frames are to be fitted fully in accordance with the guidance issued by the Timber Research and Development Association, and Appendix I to this schedule. The outer, lobby door is NOT to be fitted with any lock or catch other than a ball catch.

Provide adequate means of artificial lighting within the lobby.
