---
layout: post
title: Install a Sprinkler System 1
abbrlink: aaea8cb1bd164b2d93ff22e68e1461be
tags:
  - fire_safety
categories:
  - Standard Clauses For Housing Act Use - HHSRS
  - 24 - Fire Safety
date: 1589190273000
updated: 1589190273000
---

**Install a Sprinkler System**

*These are recommended in properties where there is a significant risk of arson, or to compensate where it is difficult to provide adequate structural fire integrity i.e. listed buildings with novel features. The appropriate fire detection and alarm system must also be installed.*

Install a Residential Wet Pipe Sprinkler System within the property in accordance with DD 251 : 2000. A competent installer must carry out the installation. The system should cover all rooms within the property, as indicated on the plans, with the exception of bathrooms, shower rooms, separate water closets (unless the room is considered high risk, e.g. has a boiler within it), cupboards or pantries (where there is a floor area of no more than 2 m2) or within a loft void. The system must be installed in accordance with the manufactures instructions.

Understairs cupboards must either be of 30min fire-resistant construction or be cleared of all items and secured shut

The sprinkler heads must be capable of achieving 60 litres/min in operation (single sprinkler) or 42 litres/min for sprinklers operating simultaneously within a single room (maximum of four sprinkler heads). The minimum operating pressure of any sprinkler head must be no less than 0.5 bar. The sprinklers heads must be able to maintain pressure and flow rate for a minimum of 30 minutes. Each sprinkler must be able to provide coverage of at least 15 m2. The entire room must be wetted by operation of the sprinkler head(s) (up to 0.7m below the ceiling).

The sprinkler heads must have a heat sensitivity of at least 30oc greater than the highest anticipated ambient temperature of the location. In normal circumstances this would equate to a heat sensitivity of 68oc.

The Sprinkler System can be supplied in various ways, including Town Main Supply, Pressure Tank, Automatic Booster Pump for Town Main or Storage Tank or a Gravity Stored Water System. Whichever supply system is employed the previous operating pressure and discharge rates must be achieved. The Authority must be notified of the supply system used.

If the water supply serves both the Sprinkler System and residential water use, a Priority Demand Valve must be installed to divert water supply in the event of Sprinkler System operation.

If a Booster Pump is utilised it must be installed in area likely to be unaffected by fire. In an area were temperatures must not fall below freezing. It must be suitable protected against the affects of fire, i.e. within a 30 minute fire-resistant enclosure. It must be suitably designed and manufactured such that testing is needed no more than on an annual basis. Finally the pump must have an integral electrical back up supply for the event of an mains electrical failure.

All pipework for the Sprinkler System must be protected against frost and suitably supported.

An Integral part of the Residential Sprinkler System must be an Alarm System. The Alarm System can either be a mechanically driven alarm or an electrically operated flow switch. In either case the alarm must be triggered by the flow of water to at least one sprinkler. Should an electrically operated flow switch alarm be utilised this must have an integral back up power supply. The alarm must be capable of being heard in all parts of the building and have an audio-visual alarm positioned externally in a prominent position and clearly labelled ‘FIRE ALARM’.

The installer must provide a Commissioning Certificate and a logbook. A copy of the Commissioning Certificate must be supplied to the Authority. The system should be subject to an annual inspection by a competent Engineer. The details of which should be noted within the logbook.

**NOTE: THE SYMBOLS INDICATING THE NEED FOR SPRINKLERS, AND SOUNDERS ON THE ATTACHED PLANS INDICATES THE INTERNAL AREA BOUNDED BY WALLS, PARTITIONS AND DOORS TO BE COVERED BY SPRINKLERS AND SOUNDERS. IT DOES NOT INDICATE THE POSITIONS OF INDIVIDUAL HEADS OR SOUNDERS, NOR DOES IT IMPLY THAT A SINGLE SPRINKLER HEAD OR SOUNDER WILL BE SUFFICIENT TO MEET THE REQUIREMENTS OF THE DRAFT FOR DEVELOPMENT REFERRED TO WITHIN THIS SCHEDULE.**
