---
layout: post
title: Walls Insulation Basement
abbrlink: b480e2cd6cb24ca38c2e66ab76dd6880
tags:
  - excess_cold
categories:
  - Standard Clauses
  - 2 - Excess Cold
date: 1699191060000
updated: 1699191060000
---

To the following walls: **XXX**

Remove all skirting, picture rails, coving, radiators, pipework, electrical fittings, wiring and other features to enable the fixing of insulation to the entire internal surfaces of the walls.

Where removed materials and fittings are sound and safe, keep aside for reuse. Where removed materials and fittings are unsuitable replace with new or sound reclaimed materials.

Cap off or make safe plumbing or electrical supplies.

Hack off all damp and sound plaster from floor to ceiling, including any window reveals.

Provide a specialist survey and damp report by a company recognised by the Property Care Association. Carry out an effective chemical dampness prevention treatment to the affected walls suitable to receive insulation boarding.

The works required may include the provision of a horizontal and/or vertical chemical damp proof course to all affected brick walls.

Provide insulation to the internal faces of the external wall(s), the insulation provided shall be attached to the walls in accordance with the manufacturers guidance and be designed to achieve a “U” Value of 0.30 (W/m2K). This may typically be achieved by the bonding of a 60mm thermal laminate wallboard, comprising a CFC free phenolic foam insulant and plasterboard bonded to the wall.

In installing the insulation board you should be aware of the advice contained in BRE Design Guide 245:2007 and the current version of B.S. 6576 in relation to the type of fixing to walls that have been treated using a chemical damp proof course.

**Dependent on the manufacturer’s instructions for the insulation system installed, provide a suitable final surface for redecoration. Where practicable achieve this by providing a skim coat of finishing plaster to the insulated surface.**

Restore removed items to the finished insulated surface and redecorate as necessary. Ensure any features such as timber window cills project outwards from the finished insulated surface by planting additional timber to match the extent of the original projection.

*Narrative - Informative to officers (damp associated with excess cold): for use where a basement of a ground floor dwelling has a significant score for Excess Cold and where the external walls are damp and require treatment and plaster removal use the following clause*
