---
layout: post
title: Soil and Waste Pipes – Drainage Generic
abbrlink: ca396f75f2fd4b319cb0c45f5684b194
tags:
  - personal_hygeine_sanitation_and_drainage
categories:
  - Standard Clauses For Housing Act Use - HHSRS
  - 17 - Personal Hygiene, Sanitation and Drainage
date: 1588238855000
updated: 1699227156263
---

**Soil and Waste Pipes** **–** **Drainage Generic**

Provide and fix a new soil pipe to the **XXX**. The new soil pipe to be 100mm diameter properly connected to the underground drainage using a suitable connector. Ensure the terminal of the vent pipe is at least 1metre above eaves level. Ensure that a suitable rodent-proof cage is fitted at the top of the pipe. Test and leave in proper working order.

Take down the defective soil pipe to the **XXX**. Provide and fix a new pipe of suitable material and diameter jointed in accordance with the manufacturer's instructions and properly jointed to existing drain connections. Ensure that a suitable rodent-proof cage is fitted at the top of the pipe. Test and leave in proper working order.

Remove defective lengths of pipe to the existing soil stack to the **XXX**. Provide and fix new lengths of pipe using approved material and properly remake the joints. Test and leave in proper working order. Where joining different materials, use a proprietary connector. Ensure that a suitable rodent-proof cage is fitted at the top of the pipe.

Remake defective joints to the **XXX** soil pipe, using approved materials.

Extend the **XXX** soil and vent pipe to terminate not less than 1m vertically and 3m horizontally from any window or door opening. Ensure that a suitable rodent-proof cage is fitted at the top of the pipe.

Provide and fix suitable rodent-proof cage on top of the **XXX** soil vent pipe.

Provide additional fixings to properly secure the **XXX** soil vent pipe to the **XXX** wall.

To the drain interceptor located at **XXX**, remove defective front to fresh air inlet and fix new mica flap front, make good all works disturbed.

To the drain interceptor located at **XXX**, remove defective fresh air inlet. Provide and fix a new fresh air inlet complete using suitable materials.
