---
layout: post
title: Windows Timber Sashes
abbrlink: ca3adfbd09664c768ee58f5a26bd2fa1
tags: []
categories:
  - Standard Clauses
  - 2 - Excess Cold
date: 1699191086000
updated: 1699191086000
---

**Replace timber sashes but retain frame**

Take out the defective window sashes to the **XXX**. Provide and hang new sashes to match original, properly glazed. Cut out and renew any rotten timber to frame and cill. The finished sashes and other parts of the windows should fit within sound frames to a clearance of no more than 3mm, and be fitted with rebated seals fitted to the underside of the bottom rail and between the mid rails. Replace the staff and parting beads with proprietary new beads that are designed to reduce draughts.

Leave in proper working order on completion.

OR

Take out sliding sashes, ease, adjust and refit leaving to open and close freely. The finished sashes and other parts of the windows should fit within sound frames to a clearance of no more than 3mm, and be fitted with rebated seals fitted to the underside of the bottom rail and between the mid rails. Replace the staff and parting beads with proprietary new beads that are designed to reduce draughts and in a weatherproof condition.

OR

Take out defective bottom window sash to the **XXX**. Provide and hang new sash to match original. Cut out and renew any rotten or badly worn timbers to frame, cill and top sash. The finished sashes and other parts of the windows should fit within sound frames to a clearance of no more than 3mm, and be fitted with rebated seals fitted to the underside of the bottom rail and between the mid rails. Replace the staff and parting beads with proprietary new beads that are designed to reduce draughts.

Leave in sound working order on completion.

OR

Take out the **XXX** sliding sash to the portion of the box framed sliding sash window and replace with new sliding sash, pattern to match original and leave window to open and close freely in weatherproof condition and finished in a three coat (minimum) paint system.

Make good to all disturbed areas of brickwork and plaster and suitably point the window reveals and soffit of lintel.
