---
layout: post
title: Windows Secondary Glazing Normal Cill
abbrlink: cbec76ac13344b7a809f2a9cf71e990b
tags:
  - excess_cold
categories:
  - Standard Clauses
  - 2 - Excess Cold
date: 1699191101000
updated: 1699191101000
---

**Secondary glazing clause (Ordinary cill height version)**

Provide and fit secondary glazing to the windows in the rooms listed below:

**X**

**X**

**X**

**X**

The secondary windows should be constructed as to ensure that they match the style of the existing windows and so that they do not impact on the visual appearance of the existing windows. They must be anchored into a solid hardwood sub frame, within the existing openings, to provide for a secure fixing.

To allow for ease of use and safe cleaning, the secondary glazing units must be of a vertical sliding type being of a light weight construction which operates on a system of pre tensioned balances to control the motion of the sash. This will enable the sash to remain open in any position that it is placed. The frames of the secondary glazing units installed must be sealed with an appropriate sealant, to the hardwood sub frame. This is to ensure that there is no air gap with the reveal of the existing window opening.

A minimum 20mm gap between existing and secondary glazing should be aimed for.

Secondary glazing should be draught-stripped, while the existing windows should be left without seals. The selected system should be one that can be opened easily for ventilation. It should be possible to leave the secondary glazing slightly open and so allow trickle ventilation into the room.

Low level glazing in the secondary glazing that is wholly or partially within 800mm from floor level is in a critical location. Safety glass that complies with the current version of BS 6206 class C/ BS EN 12600 or above must be fitted in these locations. The safety glazing should be permanently marked in accordance with BS 6206 etc. The markings should still be visible after the glass has been fitted and the beading and pointing has been completed.

Provide and fit suitable opening limiters to the lower sash of the original double hung sash window that will restrict the distance that a window can be opened to 100mm to prevent a fall from within the building
