---
layout: post
title: Windows Draught Proof Overhaul Sash
abbrlink: d6c3c4987abc4081870d88263841df83
tags: []
categories:
  - Standard Clauses
  - 2 - Excess Cold
date: 1699191146000
updated: 1699191146000
---

**Overhaul and draught proof sash windows**

Overhaul all sash windows in the property and properly repair all loose, broken, missing or rotted woodwork of sashes and frames, including external timber cills, as necessary; repair or replace all loose, broken or missing fittings such as sash cords, pulleys, weights and fasteners and leave windows to open and close freely and in weatherproof condition. All defective, loose and missing putties to windows are to be hacked out and made good with linseed oil putty to timber windows. Putties to be cleaned off on the inside and any disturbance to internal decorations made good. All cracked and holed glazing shall be replaced. Where the wooden subcills are rotten cut out and replace. Cut out all rotten timber and replace with new timer to match existing. Seal between the wooden subcill and stone cill.

Provide and fit draught strips to all the sash windows. Products should be manufactured to BS 7386 and installed to BS 7880. Remove all the beading which the windows use as runners to run up and down on and replace them with special beading which has a bristle strip embedded into them. Additionally, embed bristle strip into the windows where the top and bottom windows meet to stop drafts coming in. This requires removing the windows and using a router to cut a channel in the wood.

Alternatively,

If you don’t want to remove the beading, then a combination of compression draught strip and bristle strip shall be fitted in the following way: For the lower sash, fit bristle strip to both sides of the beading on the inside. Cut the strip to size then with the window closed nail/screw it in place. Do exactly the same for the upper sash **BUT on** the outside. Were both windows meet in the middle fit bristle strip on both sides with the bristles facing each other just touching? This will stop draughts coming in the middle. With the window open, fit self-adhesive foam or rubber strip on the underside of the top and bottom edge of the window to stop draughts coming in there when the upper and lower sash close onto the frame. See enclosed leaflet.
