---
layout: post
title: Electrical Condition Report HMO
abbrlink: e1036d93db8944618fa367304b7ee42b
tags:
  - electrical_hazards
categories:
  - Standard Clauses For Housing Act Use - HHSRS
  - 23 - Electrical Hazards
date: 1588256089000
updated: 1699227342185
---

**Electrical Condition Report (HMO)**

Provide an ‘’Electrical Installation Condition Report’’ for the electrical installation and fittings to the top floor flat. Details of the extent and limitations of the inspection and test shall be specified for each installation; paying particular attention to the following:

- Bedsitting Rooms, including coin operated meter
- Common hallways, landings and stairway including coin operated meter
- Shared Bathrooms / including shower mixer units
- Water heaters, which serve the dwellings or shared amenities

A copy of the electrical installation condition report is to be forwarded to the case officer.

Where the installation and or fittings have been listed as ‘Unsatisfactory’, any C1 or C2 observations will require remedial action. Any C3 observations should be given due consideration.

- C1= Danger present; Risk of injury. Immediate remedial action required
- C2= potentially dangerous; urgent remedial action required.
- C3= Improvement recommended

Carry out all appropriate C1 & C2 remedial works, listed in the electrical installation condition report, to bring the installation and fittings to a safe condition for continued use.

The report and remedial works are to be undertaken by a competent electrician, registered with a nationally recognised third party body such as Electrical Contractors Association (E.C.A.); National Association for Professional Inspectors and Testers (N.A.P.I.T.); National Inspection Council Electrical Installation Contracting (N.I.C.E.I.C.) All work must be accompanied by a certificate, either a Minor Works Certificate or an Electrical Installation Certificate as appropriate.

The electrical installation should be re-inspected as recommended in the Periodic Inspection Report/Electrical Installation Condition Report.
