---
layout: post
title: Examine & upgrade existing door frames and install new 30 minute fire door
abbrlink: ebce2ecd53294608b314209cdf8323cf
tags:
  - fire_safety
categories:
  - Standard Clauses For Housing Act Use - HHSRS
  - 24 - Fire Safety
date: 1633444681000
updated: 1633444681000
---

**Examine & upgrade existing door frames and install new 30 minute fire door**

Remove and suitably dispose of the following doors: - - Remove the architraves from the room-side of the door openings and, if sound, set aside for re-use. Allow for examination of the frame/wall junction by the Environmental Health Officer.

Examine the condition of the door frame and stop and replace if damaged or out of square.

Square the frame as necessary and fill all voids with intumescent mastic or paste. Fill gaps between frame and wall/partition opening with intumescent mastic or paste. Where door and frame are binding, relieve by removal of minimum amounts of timber equally from door and frame. Fill gaps greater than 4mm by fitting solid timber of equivalent density to door and frame respectively. The timber to be screwed and glued using non-thermally softening glue. Such as Aerodux \[Resorcinal-formaldehyde adhesive] or some water based PVA glues. Minimum permitted size of timber infill is 6mm. Fit a intimately fitted softwood or hardwood architrave, at least 15mm thick with a 15mm overlap onto both wall and door frame. The bottom edge of the door should be parallel to the floor finish so as not to bind and to leave a maximum gap of 10mm beneath the door when closed.

Provide and hang replacement fire resisting doors to all openings listed immediately below. - - - Re-fix sound existing or new architraves tightly to the frame. On completion door to be close fitting with frame (maximum gap 4mm) and effectively self-closing to engage the latch. It is recommended that an overhead hydraulic closer is used. Hang on three steel or brass hinges with hinge blade size of 75-100mm by 27-33mm. The doors or frames are to be fitted down both jambs and along the head with intumescent strips and cold smoke seals.

The latch should have a positive latching mechanism comprising steel or brass nib (not rollerball catch) which is preferably surface mounted, secured to the door with fixings to a minimum depth of 25mm. Any lock, including deadlock, must be fitted with a turnkey mechanism, not necessitating use of a key on the room side.

The doors are to be fitted in accordance with guidance issued by the Timber Research and Development Association. All works to be in accordance with Appendix I to this schedule. On completion doors/frames to have a minimum fire resistance of 30 minutes.
