---
layout: post
title: Windows Secondary Glazing Low Cill
abbrlink: f19e8e3593534c73a87fb3f093d78e3f
tags:
  - excess_cold
categories:
  - Standard Clauses For Housing Act Use - HHSRS
  - 2 - Excess Cold
date: 1699191108000
updated: 1699191108000
---

Provide and fit secondary glazing to the windows in the rooms listed below:

**X**

**X**

**X**

**X**

The secondary windows should be constructed as to ensure that they match the style of the existing windows and so that they do not impact on the visual appearance of the existing windows. They must be anchored into a solid hardwood sub frame, within the existing openings, to provide for a secure fixing.

To allow for ease of use and safe cleaning, the secondary glazing units must be of a vertical sliding type being of a light weight construction which operates on a system of pre tensioned balances to control the motion of the sash. This will enable the sash to remain open in any position that it is placed. The frames of the secondary glazing units installed must be sealed with an appropriate sealant, to the hardwood sub frame. This is to ensure that there is no air gap with the reveal of the existing window opening.

A minimum 20mm gap between existing and secondary glazing should be aimed for.

Secondary glazing should be draught-stripped, while the existing windows should be left without seals. The selected system should be one that can be opened easily for ventilation. It should be possible to leave the secondary glazing slightly open and so allow trickle ventilation into the room.

Where the cill height of the secondary glazing is wholly or partially within 800mm from floor level there is need for safety glass to be installed in this critical location. Safety glass to comply with the current version of BS 6206 class C/ BS EN 12600. The safety glazing should be permanently marked in accordance with BS 6206 etc. The markings should still be visible after the glass has been fitted and the beading and pointing has been completed. Building Regulations requirements apply.

Provide and fit suitable opening limiters to the lower sash of the original double hung sash window that will restrict the distance that a window can be opened to 100mm to prevent a fall from within the building
