---
layout: post
title: Rising Damp and Damp Proof Course
abbrlink: f4ce8670a10941e7bd3a4b8bb4c86a0f
tags:
  - damp_mould
categories:
  - Standard Clauses
  - 1 - Damp and Mould Growth
date: 1699189152000
updated: 1699189152000
---

**A Deans/Kawuba hybrid incorporating leak detection but a possibly useful starter for 10 please Bamber. Some bits to add and takeaway like a "common parts" type situation for where works need to be spread amongst parties.**

**I'm a big fan of leak detection specialists.**

**1. Damp and Mould growth (Category 1 Hazard)**

**Rising Damp/Damp Proof Course**

a) Instruct a competent specialist contractor, for example, from a Property Care Association (PCA) to carry out an external examination of all walls of XXXXXXX; including the right hand side flank wall, and right hand side wall that forms the smaller bedroom, bathroom and kitchen and rear wall to the kitchen for the presence and condition of a damp proof course.

b) Produce a specialist report and forward a copy to the council’s case officer.

Consider employing a specialist contractor for **leak detection** which would involve the use of dyes, heat cameras or other techniques to correctly diagnose possible water penetration from waste drains, gulley and rain water down pipes and connections to the right hand side of flat A’s smaller rear bedroom, bathroom and kitchen.

c) Examine all rainwater drainage connections and wastewater connections to bathroom enclosures to both the rear room shower enclosure and the corridor bathroom.

d) To all parts of the walls where there is external evidence of dampness or where the damp proof course is missing or inefficient, remove existing wall linings, and hack off all damp and defective plaster. Or drill brickwork/blockwork at 100mm centres.

e) Vertically or horizontally inject with a specified chemical fluid until rejection in forming a D.P.C barrier. Rake out brickwork joints ready to receive new rendering. Install a positive horizontal/vertical damp proof course. Damp proof course to be continuous with the damp-proof course membrane in the floor to produce effective tanking of the flat A’s walls.

f) Re-plaster exposed areas using 1:3 cement/sand mix, incorporating a waterproofing additive or as required by the specialist contractor.

g) A guarantee certificate on completion shall be issued and a copy forwarded to the council.

h) On completion of works make good to all disturbed decorations.

i) Examine the rainwater pipe to the main roof that discharges to the rear corner between flat A’s bathroom and smaller bedroom.

**Note:**

23. \==That internal remedial works related to damp and mould in Flat A will be subject to a separate notice served on the leaseholder. However, the freeholder and leaseholder can agree to carryout external and internal works collaboratively to effectively remedy the hazard of rising damp.==
24. That all works should be undertaken by a member of the ‘PROPERTY CARE ASSOCIATION’ or by a contractor capable of providing a guarantee, which is underwritten by an acceptable insurance scheme or by the fluid manufacturer.
